---
layout: post
title: Syllabus
---

# Syllabus

## Labs

We'll generally have one lab per week. A lab assignment always
involves some programming, and may also involve some written answers.

Submit your lab by attaching the files in an email to me and the
grader. Due dates are listed on the homepage of this site.

## Tests

We have three short tests, which take place on Mondays (in the
classroom). We have no "final exam." The tests are hand-written, so
you don't use a computer. You won't be asked to write programs.

## Group project

During the last several weeks of the class, you will not be working on
labs but rather on a group project. Each group has two members. You
share a grade for the project. Details about project requirements will
be provided later. You will probably be asked to create a small
interactive game.

Rather than have a final exam during finals' week, we will have group
presentations.

You are required to attend the group presentations. Part of your
attendance grade depends on attending these presentations.

## Grading

<table>
<tr><td>Labs</td><td>40%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 2</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 3</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project</td><td>20%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Attendance (Mondays + group pres.)</td><td>10%</td></tr>
</table>

## Academic misconduct policy

The only work required of you outside of class is homework
assignments. During tests, there is no tolerance for
cheating. However, you may participate in a reasonable amount of
collaboration over homeworks. Collaboration is limited to: discussing
how to approach the solution, or how to solve small coding problems;
looking at the Internet for information about general topics, not
solutions to the particulars of the homework assignment. It is
considered academic misconduct if you copy significant portions of
code from anyone (the Internet included). Your solutions should not
bear an uncanny resemblance to anyone else's code. It should be clear
to you what I mean by this; do not test the limits of this (fairly
liberal) policy. Violators will be referred to the OSU Committee on
Academic Misconduct (COAM).

## Disability statement

Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the
impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss your
specific needs. You should also contact the Office for Disability
Services at 614-292-3307 in room 150 Pomerene Hall to coordinate
reasonable accommodations for documented disabilities.

