---
layout: post
title: Syllabus
---

# Syllabus

By the end of this class, you should be able to:

  - Write small interactive programs using the Processing language.
  
  - Have experience learning a new programming language by utilizing
    internet resources.
    
The first goal should be unsurprising. The second goal ensures you can
learn a new technical skill, perhaps one more relevant to you, in your
future. You may well forget how to program in Processing, but I want
to ensure you do not lose the skill of learning new technical
material.

## Attendance

You are required to attend class once a week for lectures, which occur
only on Mondays. Wednesday and Friday are lab days, in which I will be
walking around answering questions. Your attendance grade is
calculated as the percentage of Monday lectures that you attend (not
counting excused absences; just email me). You are also required to
attend the group presentations day (see below), which occurs on the
normal final exam day during finals' week (we will not have an exam
that day).

## Labs

We'll generally have one lab per week. A lab assignment always
involves some programming, and may also involve some written answers.

Submit your lab by adding your files to the Carmen dropbox. Due dates
are listed on the home page of this site.

Late work is penalized. Your maximum possible score on late work is
70/100. You can turn it in at any time (until the last day of
class). Just submit late work to the appropriate dropbox.

## Extra credit

I want you to learn how to use the internet to learn
programming. Thus, I will be offering extra credit periodically that
asks you to find useful material on the web and give me the link, or
ask a question in a forum and give me the link and answer. Everyone in
the class benefits from your findings since I will make the links
available to everyone.

## Tests

We have three short tests, which take place on Mondays (in the
classroom). We have no "final exam." The tests are hand-written, so
you don't use a computer. You won't be asked to write programs. Test
dates are on the home page.

## Group projects

You will have two group projects. Each group has two members. You
share a grade for the project. Details about project requirements will
be provided later. You will probably be asked to create a small
interactive game in both cases (the first project will be simpler).

Rather than have a final exam during finals' week, we will have group
presentations for the second, larger project.

You are required to attend the group presentations at the end of the
semester. Part of your attendance grade depends on attending these
presentations.

## Grading

<table>
<tr><td>Labs</td><td>30%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 2</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 3</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 2</td><td>20%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Attendance (Mondays + group pres.)</td><td>10%</td></tr>
</table>

## Academic misconduct policy

I want you to use the internet, and each other, to learn Processing
but more to learn how to learn. Outside the classroom, everyone refers
to the internet and colleagues (and sometimes books) to learn new
technical material.

However, when your lab assignments, you must indicate any code that
you copied, including the source of the code. You are required to
contribute most of the code in your lab; do not turn in a lab mostly
written by other people. The labs for this class are new, so you
should not be able to find complete answers online.

I reserve the right to give you a 0% on an assignment if I believe it
is clear that you copied most or all of the answers.

During tests, there is no tolerance for copying answers or
collaborating (obviously).

Violators of these policies will be referred to the OSU Committee on
Academic Misconduct (COAM).

## Disability statement

Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the
impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss your
specific needs. You should also contact the Office for Disability
Services at 614-292-3307 in room 150 Pomerene Hall to coordinate
reasonable accommodations for documented disabilities.

