---
layout: post
title: Test 2 Guide
---

# Test 2 Guide

You will see some questions like the following. The test is on paper,
closed-notes. The material covered is keyboard input, mouse input, arrays and loops. Earlier subjects (colors, animation, variables and types, etc.) are not specifically addressed but you should know about them anyway.

## Keyboard input

Write code that you would put in place of the `...` to make the following `if` work (i.e., so the message is printed at the right times):

{% highlight java %}
void keyPressed()
{
  if(...)
  {
    println("You pressed the 'w' key!");
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

Write a `keyPressed()` function that prints the message "Invalid key", using `println()` as above, whenever a key other than `w`, `a`, `s`, or `d` is pressed.

## Mouse input

Write code for the `...` that draws a circle (diameter 10) centered on the mouse pointer (so that the circle follows the mouse):

{% highlight java %}
void draw()
{
  ellipse(...);
}
{% endhighlight %}

Finish this code so that the integer variables `x` and `y` are both set to `0` when a mouse button is clicked anywhere inside the top-left quarter (quadrant) of the screen:

{% highlight java %}
void mouseClicked()
{
  ...
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Arrays

Suppose we have an array with 97 values. What is the first array "position" or "index"? What is the last index?

Know how types (`int`, `float`, `String`, etc.) work with arrays. Specifically, suppose we have this code:

{% highlight java %}
int j;
String s;
float[] ww;
String[] t;
float r;
int[] z;
{% endhighlight %}

You might see questions like the following. Note that we can answer these questions even though we don't know which *values* any of these variables contain or how many values are in the arrays.

- What type is `s`?
- What type is `t`?
- What type is `r`?
- What type is `t[0]`?
- What type is `t[j]`?
- What type is `ww[3]`?
- What type is `ww`?
- What type is `ww[j]`?
- What type is `z`?
- What type is `ww[z[0]]`?
- What type is `ww[z[j]]`?

Suppose I want to create an array of 1000 `float` values. Write the necessary code to define such an array with the name `myvals` and set all the values in the array to `12.55`.

Write code that creates an array of 2000 integers, called `oddeven`, and sets the values in "even" array positions (0, 2, ...) to `1` and "odd" array positions (1, 3, ...) to `0`. For example, `oddeven[18]` is `1` and `oddeven[19]` is `0`. (Note that you can determine if a number is even by checking if its remainder, after dividing by 2, is equal to 0.)

## Loops

Write a `for` loop that draws 100 ellipses (I don't care about the dimensions or locations of the ellipses).

What is the value of `sum` after this loop is finished?

{% highlight java %}
int sum = 0;
for(int q = -5; q < 10; q--)
{
  sum += q;
  q = q + 3;
}
{% endhighlight %}