---
layout: post
title: Syllabus
---

# Syllabus

By the end of this class, you should be able to:

  - Write interactive media-rich programs using the Processing
    language.
  
  - Learn a new programming language by utilizing internet resources.
    
The first goal should be unsurprising. The second goal ensures you can
efficiently learn a new technical skill. You may forget how to program
in Processing, but hopefully you do not forget how to search the web
about techincal questions and understand (often inadequate)
documentation.

## Attendance

You are required to attend Friday lecture, at least one of the two lab
days each week, and both group presentation days. Your attendance
grade is the percent of these classes/labs you attend.

## Labs

We'll generally have one lab per week. Each lab assignment is a
programming assignment.

Submit your lab by adding your ZIP file to the Carmen dropbox. Due
dates are listed on the home page of this site.

Late work is penalized. Your maximum possible score on late work is
60/100. You can turn it in at any time (until the last day of
class). Submit late work to the appropriate dropbox, and send me an
email telling me you have done so, because I may not see it otherwise.

## Tests

We have three short tests, which take place on Fridays (in the
classroom). We have no "final exam." The tests are hand-written, so
you don't use a computer. You won't be asked to write programs. Test
dates are on the home page.

## Group projects

You will have two group projects. Each group has two members. You
share a grade for the project. Details about project requirements will
be provided later. You will be asked to create a small interactive
game in both cases (the first project will be simpler).

Rather than have a final exam during finals' week, we will have group
presentations for the second, larger project.

## Grading

<table>
<tr><td>Labs</td><td>30%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 2</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 3</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 2</td><td>20%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Attendance</td><td>10%</td></tr>
</table>

## Academic misconduct policy

I want you to utilize the internet, and each other, to learn
Processing but also to learn how to learn. Outside the classroom,
everyone references to the internet, colleagues, and sometimes books,
to learn new technical material.

However, with regards to your lab assignments, you must indicate any
code that you copied, including the source web address of the
code. You are required to contribute most of the code in your lab; do
not turn in a lab mostly written by other people.

I reserve the right to give you a 0% on an assignment if I believe it
is clear that you copied most or all of the answers.

During tests, there is no tolerance for copying answers or
collaborating (obviously).

Violators of these policies will be referred to the OSU Committee on
Academic Misconduct (COAM).

## Disability statement

<div style="font-size: 16px;">

Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the
impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss your
specific needs. You should also contact the Office for Disability
Services at 614-292-3307 in room 150 Pomerene Hall to coordinate
reasonable accommodations for documented disabilities.

</div>

