---
layout: post
title: Test 2 Guide
---

# Test 2 Guide

You will see some questions like the following. The test is on paper,
closed-notes.

## Keyboard input

- Write a `keyPressed()` function that prints the message "up" when
  the up arrow key is pressed.
  
- Write a `keyPressed()` function that prints the message "x" when the
  "x" key is pressed.
  
- Write a `keyPressed()` function that prints the message "left" when
  either the left arrow key or "a" key is pressed.

## Mouse input

- Write a `mouseClicked()` function that prints the message "clicked"
  whenever the left-mouse button is clicked.
  
- Write a `mouseClicked()` function that prints the message "hit!"
  whenever the user clicks the mouse (any button) within a 10x10
  rectangle with top-left coordinate 50,30.
  
- Suppose you are writing a `mouseDragged()` function, and want to
  allow dragging a box with position "x" and "y" (variables). What is
  the correct way to update the x-coordinate? (The y-coordinate would
  require the same update.)
  
- What boolean variable allows you to determine in the `draw()`
  function if the mouse is being clicked?
  
- Write an `if()` block that you could use in the `draw()` function
  that prints the message "clicked" whenever the left-mouse button is
  clicked.

## Arrays and loops

*Note: you also may be asked about the functions in the
 [array utilities video](/videos/2013-02-23-array-utilities.html).*

- Write a `for()` loop that prints the message "Yo" 100 times.

- Write a `for()` loop that finds the product
  `20*19*18*...*3*2*1`. Print the product once found.

- Create an integer array of size 5, put some values in it, then write
  a `for()` loop that finds the sum and prints it.
  
- Create a float array of size 5, put some values in it, then write
  a `for()` loop that finds the minimum value and prints it.

- Create an array of names of famous people, of size 5, put some
  values in it, and print its contents in reverse.
  
- Create an array of any type, of size 5, put some values in it, then
  expand the array by adding 3 more positions, and put values in those
  new positions. Use an array function provided by Processing to do
  this.
  
- Create two arrays of size 100, of any type (but the same
  type). Don't bother putting values in them. Then, create a new array
  that is the "concatenation" of the two (the first array followed by
  the second array). Write a loop that prints the third array's
  contents. Use an array function provided by Processing to do this.
  
- Create an array of integers, any size, don't bother putting values
  in it, then sort the array. Use an array function provided by
  Processing to do this.

