---
layout: post
title: Lab 9
due: Mar 25, 11:59pm
---

# Lab 9

Watch the videos
[object-oriented programming 1](/videos/2013-03-17-oo-1.html) and
[lecture about object-oriented programming](/videos/2013-03-18-oo-lecture.html).

Create two classes, one called `Player` and one called something else
like `Enemy`, `ScaryBall`, or whatever. The `Player` class must
represent a single player, and the other class must represent things
the players have to avoid or obtain or whatever.

You must have two players (at least), and you must be able to control
each player independently. Perhaps you will use the WASD keys for
player 1, and UP/DOWN/LEFT/RIGHT for player 2. When you create a
player, you should specify (maybe with an `int` or `boolean` value)
whether you are creating player 1 or 2. When a key is pressed (in the
`keyPressed()` function), each player should be asked to respond to
the key. Player 1 ignores UP/DOWN/LEFT/RIGHT keys but responds to
WASD, etc. See video 2 for an example of this coordination.

You must have at least two enemies or scary balls or whatever that the
players interact with. The enemies have to move on their own
(randomly, or falling, or growing/shrinking, etc.).

You do not need to detect collisions or have a score or difficulty. We
just want to practice object-oriented programming, so we just want to
practice making and using classes, and moving objects around.

Your main `setup()` and `draw()` functions must be as simple as
possible, like in the first video (the final code). These functions
should only be responsible for creating player/enemy object variables,
and calling functions in the classes.

Finally, you are required to create a new "Tab" (i.e., new file) for
each class (see the end of the first video). So, you should have three
tabs: the main code, the player class, and the enemy class. When you
upload your code to the Dropbox, make sure you use "Archive Sketch"
feature in the Tools menu so that you upload all of your files and
not just your main file.


