---
layout: post
title: Lab 7
due: Nov 1, 11:59pm
---

# Lab 7

Create two classes: `Player`, `Bug`. **The `Player` class (but not the `Bug` class) must draw an animated sprite** (maybe only if the player is in motion, or maybe all the time). The `Bug` class must draw an image, which might or might not be animated. Create one instance of the `Player` class, and allow this instance to be moved around the screen with the keyboard and/or mouse. You must have an array of `Bug` objects, so that there are many of them on the screen at the same time. The bugs move around on their own (perhaps randomly).

Create functions in the `Player` class called `getX()` and `getY()` and create functions in the `Bug` class called `getTopLeftX()`, `getTopLeftY()`, `getWidth()`, and `getHeight()`, that return the corresponding values. Then, in the `draw()` function in the main file, use these functions to determine if the player is touching any of the bugs (where "touching" means "the player's center is within the bug's bounding box defined by its top-left x/y and width/height"). When a player is touching a bug, either print a message (using `println()`) or draw text on the screen or whatever.

Note that this is how you write a function that "returns" a value from a class:

{% highlight java %}
class Foo
{
  int x;
  // ...
  
  int getX()
  {
    return x;
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

When you upload your code to the Dropbox, make sure you use "Archive Sketch"
feature in the Tools menu so that you upload all of your files and
not just your main file.
