---
layout: post
title: Lab 7
due: Mar 4, 11:59pm
---

# Lab 7

Watch the videos about arrays:
[arrays 1](/videos/2013-02-18-arrays-1.html),
[arrays 2](/videos/2013-02-18-arrays-2.html),
[2d arrays](/videos/2013-02-26-2d-arrays.html),
[array utilities](/videos/2013-02-23-array-utilities.html), and
[`for` loops](/videos/2013-02-20-for-loops.html).

Create a program that shows a grid and allows the user to click cells
in this grid. When a cell is clicked, it changes somehow (e.g.,
changes color). Right and left mouse buttons should cause different
changes.

Here is a very short video example, where left-click sets a random
color, right-click sets it to black:

<div style="text-align: center">
<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/60454529?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;color=ffffff" width="533" height="300" frameborder="0" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>
</div>

Here is another example, which shows a numeric grid (such as you might
have in Sudoku), where left-click increases the number, right-click
decreases it:

<div style="text-align: center">
<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/60454530?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;color=ffffff" width="533" height="300" frameborder="0" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>
</div>

The grid must be at least 10x10 rectangles. You also must use a 2d
array to store information about the grid.

Hints:

- To draw the grid "evenly" regardless of window size, determine the
  width of each grid cell by dividing the window width (in the `width`
  variable) by the number of cells horizontally. Same for the height.
  
- Think about what "type" of 2d array you want to use for the
  grid. For the Sudoku example, perhaps an `int` array will work. If
  you let the player select colors, perhaps a `char` variable will
  work, where a color is represented by a single symbol, e.g. `'r'`
  for red.

- Think about how you will detect which "cell" is clicked. Use a
  double `for()` loop, just like you will to set the initial values
  and draw the grid, to check which cell has the property that the
  `mouseX` and `mouseY` are within its rectangle.
